1. The reason that asynchronous nature may be an issue is that certain calls may fail, and cause everything else to break. It also may cause tracing code much more difficult which makes the process of dubugging more complex. Loose typing can also be an issue because it allows people to not follow normal coding conventions where a specific variable is used for one purpose only, and can sometimes make it harder to read other peoples code. This mostly is problematic in larger teams where you are constantly needing to review other code, and may cause slow downs in the process of figuring out the purpose of certain variables. The web platform that js runs on can also be considered an issue because not all platforms are upto date, and we can't expect all users to use the same platform. This causes code to work well on some machines but not on others, and makes it impossible to promise 100 percent accessibility.
2. I believe that making the language loosly typed helped simply the process of creating variables for a faster web development. Having javaScript be asynchronous allows for code to process other events that are happening on a webpage while also processing something that may take longer computationally. This allows for a more enjoyable user experience and keeps web related work continuous. 
3. Compiled languages must have a compiler to create some executable file. The initial code is useless by itself. However, with interpreted languages the code is ran and executed line by line. JavaScript is an interpreted language, this allows for more flexibility and also might lead to more interactive webpages since that is the main purpose of the language. Since there is no compiler to create an optimized executable file, the language may be slower.
4. By learning how to use vanilla js we will have a better understanding of the fundamentals of web development and have a better idea of what it is that tools are doing for us. This will allow us to develop our own internal tools in the future and also will help us understand the innerworkings of websites. Not learning to use frameworks will have drawbacks such as much slower development time and possibly more frustration when trying to work through tedious code.
5. I think this lab relates to the project because it introduces the process of fixing buggy code via pipelines and web dev tools, and also helps us understand some of the fundamental operations within javaScript. JavaScript will be used a lot within our project to add functionally to our website, so having good familiarity with it will help make the development process go smoothly.